#summary How to compile OpenTyrian for Windows using MinGW and MSYS
*Written by Skutarth and by AshTR*

= Getting the necessary files =

Download the latest *Automated MinGW Installer* and *MSYS: Minimal System* from:
http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=2435

Download the latest SDL runtime library for Win32:
http://www.libsdl.org/download-1.2.php

Download the latest SDL_net development libraries for Win32:
http://www.libsdl.org/projects/SDL_net/

*Only required if you want the revision number in OpenTyrian:*
Download the latest SDL Windows installer with basic binaries:
http://subversion.tigris.org/servlets/ProjectDocumentList?folderID=8100

Download the latest 32 Bit version of TortoiseSVN:
http://tortoisesvn.net/downloads

= How to use your brain =

Install MSYS to the directory of your choice, but preferably the default `c:\msys\1.0` (for ease of use in this tutorial).
Leave the command prompt that opens alone for now.

Install MinGW. Choose to download and install. The default current release is recommended.
Select a Full install.
Choose `C:\msys\1.0\mingw` as the directory to install to and continue. The process may take a while.

Go back to the MSYS installation and answer "`y`" for the first two questions.
Type in that your installation is at `c:/msys/1.0/mingw`
Exit the prompt and complete the MSYS installation.

Extract the contents of the downloaded SDL runtime archive to `c:\msys\1.0\bin`

Extract the contents of the downloaded SDL_net development libraries archive to `c:\msys\1.0\mingw\lib`

Install TortoiseSVN, making sure you have menu extensions enabled. Create a new folder called `OpenTyrian` in `c:\msys\1.0`
Right click on the folder you just created and click "`SVN Checkout...`"
Enter http://opentyrian.googlecode.com/svn/classic/trunk into the "`URL of repository`" box.
Click OK and wait for it to finish downloading.

Now, make sure the PLATFORM in the Makefile is set to `WINDOWS`. If it is any other value, change it so it says `WINDOWS`.

If you downloaded Subversion, install it to the directory of your choice, but preferably the default `c:\Program Files\Subversion` (Doesn't really matter much since it integrates the path into Windows.)

Run MSYS.
Type `cd /`, then `cd OpenTyrian`, then `make`
Close MSYS.

Go to `c:/msys/1.0/opentyrian`
Look for tyrian.exe
This is the program you just compiled. Put it into the directory of a valid Tyrian 2.1 installation and test it.
It's recommended that you rename the original tyrian.exe to something else instead of overwriting it.

= If you want to get and compile a new revision =

Right click on the `OpenTyrian` folder in `c:/msys/1.0/` and click "`SVN Update`"
It will tell you if it updated anything. There's no need to continue if it doesn't, as you already have the newest version.
After it's finished, run MSYS.
Type `cd /`, then `cd OpenTyrian`, then `make clean` (If you compiled a previous revision already.), and finally 'make'
Close MSYS.

Provided no errors occurred, the tyrian.exe in `c:/msys/1.0/opentyrian` should be the new version.